================================
Release 0.8 - January 31st, 2013
================================

with contributions from: Niko Will and Alexander Rieger. Thank you.

I am happy to announce a new cooperation with smartVISU to give you the best
user interface experience.

New Plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^

-  :doc:`DWD Plugin </plugins/dwd/README>`: fetch weather warnings and forecasts from Deutscher Wetterdienst (DWD).
-  :doc:`Mail Plugin </plugins/mail/README>`: sending (SMTP) and receiving (IMAP) mail.
-  :doc:`RRD Plugin </plugins/rrd/README>`: build round robin databases.
-  :doc:`Russound Plugin </plugins/russound/README>`: control a Russound audio device with RIO over TCP.
-  :doc:`Snom Plugin </plugins/snom/README>`: to handle snom VOIP phones.

Features
^^^^^^^^

-  Base

   -  sh.tools.fetch\_url()
   -  item.conf: new types list, dict
   -  sh.moon() with set(), rise(), pos(), light(), phase()
   -  sh.find\_items('config\_string'), sh.find\_children(self, parent,
      'config\_string')

-  :doc:`Asterisk plugin </plugins/asterisk/README>`: Call Log and mailbox count
-  :doc:`CLI plugin </plugins/cli/README>`: adding 'rl' to reload and 'rr' to reload and run logic
-  :doc:`KNX plugin </plugins/knx/README>`: DPT 16 support
-  :doc:`Network plugin </plugins/network/README>`: adding a simple http interface
-  Visu plugin:

   -  `smartVISU` support: to generate pages for and communicate with this visualisation framework.
   -  plot rrd with flot
   -  list view
   -  dpt3 push buttons
   -  TITLE header template
   -  adding 'unit' attribute to item.conf
   -  JQuery: 1.8.3, JQuery Mobile 1.2
   -  Log view SmartHome.py, Asterisk

Bug Fixes
^^^^^^^^^

-  :doc:`KNX plugin </plugins/knx/README>`: ``knx_init`` / ``knx_cache`` could not work if first connection attempt failed

   -  dpt 10, 11, 16 handling fix

-  :doc:`Onewire plugin </plugins/onewire/README>`: improve error handling
-  Workaround for urllib2 memory leakage
